The Data Analysis of the Zanmi Kafe

This is the dashboard that we created in collaboration with the Zanmi Kafe project and the Sewanee DataLab. Zanmi Kafe's work offsets carbon emissions by planting trees on Haitian farms, which improves economic stability for the farmers. Our client needed a way to pay farmers and to efficiently calculate carbon sequestration using a vast amount of raw data. To solve this issue we developed this interactive dashboard that displays and analyzes the data.

The main panel of the dashboard allows users to compare carbon sequestration, carbon payments, and trees planted across multiple years and households. The radio buttons reflect key information from three different graphs that they correspond to. The value boxes give totals for carbon sequestered in tons, how much is paid to the farmers, and the amount of trees on each farm, and the three graphs show these totals broken down by tree species and compare carbon sequestration on the same farm or overall. 

The regressions section is a tab where each tree's height and diameter was log transformed and grouped by species to be plotted as regressions. Normally, tree height and diameter should be correlated with each other, but these may not always be correlated due to errors and fraud. This tab allows the user to look at raw data points and visualize discrepancies between years and households.

The allometric comparison tab compares allometric equations used in various calculations to calculate the amount of carbon sequestered. The equations function in slightly different ways leading to drastically different results and show immense differences in the amount of carbon absorbed. By comparing the allometric equations based on species and year, the project partner determined which calculations most accurately measure the carbon absorption of each tree species, and these equations were used in the Main Panel to show our findings.

Hopefully, this dashboard will continue to remain useful by receiving new data from future years, as well as serve as a model for other small-scale carbon markets. Next steps include adapting the project to allow for faster growth and more in-depth analysis of the data sets. It is Zanmi Kafe's goal to partner with the Haiti Photo Project to build maps with geospatial data points that observe the changes in economic development caused by growing carbon markets through the evaluation of the farmer's photos. Finally, it is a goal to one day automate this entire process in such a way that drone imaging could measure tree growth and size and automatically upload the recorded data into our dashboard for analysis.

Created in collaboration with Sewanee DataLab, Deborah McGrath, Nika Gorski, Kate Baker, and Caroline Willette